---
layout: post
title: "Motivating the Need for Change"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- practices
---

> “A company does a great job, innovates and becomes a monopoly or close to it in some field, and then the quality of the product becomes less important. The company starts valuing the great salesman, because they’re the ones who can move the needle on revenues.” - Steve Jobs; via&nbsp;Walter Isaacson.

After listening to [this weeks Hypercritical](http://5by5.tv/hypercritical/44), &nbsp;that quote became all the more meaningful. &nbsp;There are facets of larger companies that just absolutely stifle innovations, and it does not simply seem to be because they are -big- companies. &nbsp;It seems to be because they are playing defense, which is something I haven't realized until now. &nbsp;For example, we have Microsoft and their Office products, and even though they have tried to push it [to the cloud](http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/) they still play defense instead of trying to break into new markets. &nbsp;Whereby companies like Apple define markets; I.e. they have defined the app market, the tablet market, and the smartphone markets among others. &nbsp;The reason we are all so envious of Apple (and as a Founder myself I can say that), is because they are pioneers and pirates. &nbsp;They are equal parts loving and direct, powerful and creative, detached and yet fully invested. &nbsp; How does something like that even exist, much less work? &nbsp;That is something we ask and pursue everyday as we get our inspiration from people like Steve. &nbsp;But I think we all know that it has to do with the quality and care they put into their products and ideas, and as a sidenote I don't think any of us can question the validity of caring about your products and customers [anymore](http://www.apple.com/pr/library/2011/07/19Apple-Reports-Third-Quarter-Results.html).

This isn't just about making money though, it is about changing the face of vertical markets and thereby the world. &nbsp;That may sound a bit extreme, but the world is just one collection of vertical markets, in a business sense, and Apple has surely done its duty to mark a change on as many as they can. &nbsp;It may not be the intention of a company to try and change the world,&nbsp;after-all&nbsp;not all of us can be that amazing, but I will admit that it seems to be a linking characteristic to the good ones. &nbsp;**Love is a powerful motivator**, and we are learning this more and more with each day that passes. &nbsp;The push into a start-up centric culture is a clear and defining victory for a lot of us that want this change to come sooner, not later. &nbsp;And it is amazing to watch. &nbsp;

On that note, I think that understanding ourselves and intuitively knowing that we are all here to progress humanity is a big part of this. &nbsp;I know that sounds really 'hey hippy let's all go burn incense', but it is absolutely true. &nbsp;The more we are all aware of the problems we face: water famine, debt crisis, energy issues, etc - the **more we are focused on solving these problems**. &nbsp;And the more we are focused on solving these problems the higher quality the companies and start-ups will be that introduce solutions into related markets. &nbsp;Now, of course not everything can be solved by a startup, but at its base level (and in my opinion) a start-up is just a collection of ideas around changing the way either people or&nbsp;commodities&nbsp;(energy, oil, metals, etc) behave within a market. &nbsp;Regardless of the definition though, **any group of people that truely wants to can indeed define a movement**. &nbsp;And companies are just concealed movements with a grandeur theme, and thereby founders are simply movement&nbsp;initiators and activators. &nbsp;We need more though, and we need them to continue pursuing these important changes and problems we have within our world. &nbsp;Give love, create solutions, empower honesty, and let's move the needle in [our own way](http://kickstarter.com). &nbsp;What are you waiting for?

> If we doubt the power of change, change will be doubted. &nbsp;