---
layout: post
title: "On Identifying with Tasks"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- practices
---

> "If you are into buying lenses more than pressing that button on the camera, then that is really a different kind of thing." - Merlin Mann

I think that is a really meaningful statement, and one that relates to almost any job or hobby you have. &nbsp;If we are identifying with something _**related ****to **_or _**around **_a goal, then we aren't really any closer to achieving that goal. &nbsp;Nor are we any closer to becoming prolific at whatever it is we are doing that may be around said goal, because we are too busy worrying or stressing over the goal never being accomplished in the first place. &nbsp;If you are more a fan of looking for the perfect distraction free writing enviornment than you are a fan of making your fingers actually do the writing, then that is really a completely different thing. &nbsp;Maybe you should just drop the writing and start practicing minimalism, because that may be what you enjoy doing - not writing. &nbsp;Regardless of that, your problem may not be based in self-identity(you probably realize you aren't a writer in the first place), but it may be a problem with what you are actually identifying **with**. &nbsp;If you are identifying with writing, then make sure you **are doing that typing thing **that is so important. &nbsp;Not just planning, &nbsp;mindmapping, or thinking about writing. &nbsp;Not taking a shower, doing housework, or sleeping about writing - but actually making your fingers move to form coherent sentences. &nbsp;After all, the task is writing... not BS'ng. &nbsp;

If you own a car but don't know how to change the oil, you probably don't think of yourself as a mechanic or automotive enthusiast. &nbsp;You could indeed be either of those things, in which case you would probably know how to change the oil, but if you didn't you wouldn't identify with doing so in the first place. &nbsp;To put a finer point on it, we can do everything in the world _around_ writing, but never actually do any of the act itself, and we would still identify with the process. &nbsp;It's a 'your gift is your curse' sort of thing, because writing is so inspiring to some people that it gives us this&nbsp;imperceptible&nbsp;loss of&nbsp;foresight when it comes to the act of writing. &nbsp;In fact, in that same token,&nbsp;just because you tossed the ball around outside with your dad as a kid didn't mean you were a major league baseball star. &nbsp;We knew these things, and when we were little we didn't let that stop us. &nbsp;We didn't let the overwhelming burden of not being&nbsp;prolific&nbsp;at our activity actually stop us from doing it. &nbsp;We said, 'oh I'm not a professional, but I can still throw this ball - let's just see how that turns out.' &nbsp;We just went with it, and that is where the power is. &nbsp;Everything isn't always going to turn out how we want it to, but how about we ask ourselves what it is trying to be and then go with that. &nbsp;**Don't let the idea of writing flood you with inspiration, only to let you be killed and hung out to dry by the stress of never actually getting started.**&nbsp; In summation, there is a pretty solid quote regarding this that I always try to always keep in mind:

> The more late something is, the more behind you feel, the more bad you feel about it, the more you wanna' double down and get more stressed out about it. Which, that is all just about the worst thing in the world you can do. For most people this actually becomes a secondary problem that eclipses the original problem of not getting started.