---
layout: post
title: "A Different Kind of Evolution"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- tangential
---

> “As we gradually learn to harness the optimal computing capacity of matter, our intelligence will spread through the universe at (or exceeding) the speed of light, eventually leading to a sublime, universe wide awakening.” - Ray Kurzweil

I think that the main interest point for a lot of us going through our lives is the fact that we assume we will evolve to meet the challenges that lay before us. And often enough, we are absolutely correct. Surprisingly though, a lot of the mechanized systems of our times haven’t quite gotten to the point that they are meeting the demands we are putting on them. Be it requirements for clean energy or what have you, we are increasingly asking more and more from mechanized systems - and are receiving less and less. Why do you think that is? Why is it that we are still driving fossil fuel based cars while we are on our smart phones browsing a non-carbon based information highway? Is there any correlation there at all? Well, Ray Kurzweil sure thinks there is.

I certainly don’t consider myself to be a Kurzweil devotee or believer of all (or even most) of what he has to say, but I will say that a lot of his writing makes for great wonderment and substance for thinking on. For instance, who knows if technology and mental perspectives will collide in some all encompassing singularity in the near future - but what a wonderful thing to consider and ponder on. On a slightly tangential note, one of the reasons our mechanized systems are failing us is because we refuse to embrace innovation in these areas. Whereas in areas of technological basis or otherwise ‘interesting’ theorem we are all about being as efficient and innovative as possible. Could there be a reason for this, or some sort of long-misunderstood referendum that seems to be skewing us towards not understanding why that is the case?

It may in fact be our own psychological advancement and lean toward a civilized awareness in technological understanding. Take an African situation for instance. We often assume that kids there are malnourished and yet consider doing something to be far too grand of a task to ever even attempt to solve it even if that meant one small donation at a time. I feel we do a similar judgement call with our attitude towards mechanized systems, as they are often perceived as being ‘far too great’ of a burden on us to even begin to change. They are too complex, too standardized, too “set in stone”, too **everything** to be changed. Don’t you think it’s about time we threw that unsubstantiated bullshit out the window, and got started on more efficient solutions, and _more importantly_ start embracing those solutions when they come about? Well, I for one feel the time to stand up for certain things in such a similar light has never been more perfect, and yet where are all the people doing so? This is where the catch comes, they are all around you! Everyday there are startups doing things to change age-old business models and make our world much more efficient than it ever would have been without them, yet we brush the changes off as something that mainstream society would never adopt. &nbsp;So stop yourself for a moment when you consider some innovation or change to be too obtuse - too grand - or too ridiculous - and ask yourself “Where will we be in 10 years without these changes?" &nbsp;Because that type of question is where the difference lies between five more years on this planet, and five hundred.