---
layout: post
title: "Be Rebellious Against Yourself"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- growth
---

I've been thinking a lot about this ever since I read&nbsp;[Marco Armament](http://www.marco.org/about "http://www.marco.org/about")'s post&nbsp;regarding programmatic problem solving. &nbsp;I, along with some of the readers (as noted by twitter responses) think that most of the ways we go about solving problems is irrevocably inferior to a programmatic approach. &nbsp;

I believe that most of the issues that we have on a day to day basis in our lives can be solved using a more programmatic approach.&nbsp; To get a better handle on this, let’s look back at Marco’s [example](http://www.marco.org/2012/02/25/right-vs-pragmatic).&nbsp; Here we can see that people didn't&nbsp;want to obey the sign, because they already knew that what they were doing was wrong.&nbsp; Thereby, we can infer that they assumed the fallacy created by way of throwing napkins on the floor was much less than that of touching a dirty bathroom door (and possibly getting sick). &nbsp;And though we could debate the exact reason as to why they didn’t want to discard of the paper towels properly, it is rather irrelevant, what is relevant though is the fact that when prompted to do the right thing they actually did more of what was viewed as the wrong thing.&nbsp; This sort of "mini personal rebellion" is something we actually do many times throughout our day to day lives, and often without realizing it.&nbsp; We can see it within ourselves when we don’t want to exercise, we can see it often when we choose to eat fatty/unhealthy food over healthy food, and most&nbsp;notably (at least for knowledge workers)&nbsp;we can see it when we decide to fiddle instead of work on a task that needs to be accomplished. &nbsp;And let's just be clear, I am not without fault to this, as I am effectively fiddling right now as I write this. &nbsp;And this is the exact point I'd like to make in the end. &nbsp;Here I am typing a blog post, whereas I probably should be coding... but I have justified that if I am typing something for my blog then I am clearly not fiddling. &nbsp;How could I be fiddling if I am doing something that **feels**&nbsp;productive?&nbsp; Well, let’s reference Marco's example again, because I also have put up a poster. &nbsp;Mine though, is on the wall of my mind and it reads: “If you feel productive you aren’t fiddling, regardless of how not productive the task causing you to feel productive may actually be". &nbsp;And the funny thing is here (unlike Marco's example) we have a harder time telling which is which.&nbsp; We have a harder time following our logical fallacies if they **feel** logical to us, whereas throwing paper towels on the ground clearly feels&nbsp;illogical (as we all know they belong in a waste basket). &nbsp;But don't be fooled, because it is&nbsp;precisely this&nbsp;slip that causes a lot of issues we have as developers, writers, and knowledge workers in general. &nbsp;Let's unwrap that a bit.

As developers, writers, photographers, designers, or whatever it is you may be, even if you love what it is that you do, you probably go through these sorts of "issues" (read, you getting upset over fiddling) over and over again on a day to day basis.&nbsp; Regardless of what it is though, you should be aware that it is happening - that is the first step. &nbsp;And ironically enough, this is the step that causes the actual issue in the first place - not the fiddling itself. &nbsp;We read all over that we shouldn't be fiddling, and because of that we are hyper-aware of it - often to the tune of much inner turmoil. &nbsp;Now let's get better perspective on this by breaking down what fiddling may be. &nbsp;It could be as simple as something like cleaning your cameras repeatedly, doing unnecessary ‘research’ (read, *browsing*) for an article, or just prepping TextMate bundles that you may or may not ever use.&nbsp; The real question is, what do you do now that you have realized you are masking fiddling with a feeling that is actually causing you to not get real work done.&nbsp; And that is certainly the million dollar question isn’t it?&nbsp; I mean, logically, if you were constantly doing work then you may literally have close to that much money in your bank account.&nbsp; Those 0’s would certainly be satisfying, wouldn't they? &nbsp;They would be for a while certainly, but you know what’s more satisfying? &nbsp;Happiness. &nbsp;And down to the bare grit of it, fiddling makes us happy.&nbsp; Feeling productive makes us happy. &nbsp;Just to note though, of course, fiddling shouldn’t come at the expense of doing things that actually sustain your lifestyle, **but** we shouldn’t cut them out or irrevocably try to remove them from our life.&nbsp; If we do we could easily fall into the trap that the poster created by being on the wall of the bathroom:&nbsp;legitimate&nbsp;rebellion. &nbsp;Ask yourself what you'd prefer to be doing to show or release your inner-rebellion: a) fiddling and enjoying yourself or b) hating what it is that you do because you don't have a proper outlet for such harmless rebellion. &nbsp;I certainly hate to be the bearer of bad news, but I'm telling you from personal experience that if you don’t have an otherwise more manageable and entertaining outlet for your rebellion then you are going to pick something much worse to express that rebellion. &nbsp;That something will be, by its very nature, much more black and white. &nbsp;And we all know by now that the world isn't black and white, so why force it to be. &nbsp;In the end though, it's up to you to make a decision - and that decision shouldn't be fueled by not wanting to fiddle because you _heard _it is bad. &nbsp;It should be fueled by an awareness you have of the broad scope, and your long-term mental health. &nbsp;&nbsp;So what are you going to choose, **A**&nbsp;or **B?**