---
layout: post
title: "Productivity Begins Before Productivity"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- reflections
---

I often think that people who do knowledge work have the hardest time getting things done, and I’ve come to realize that it may be because we have to figure out who we want to be every morning. When you realize that you do something that requires actual thinking every day on a very insightful level, it creates a state in your mind where you have to force yourself to do that. Which then, alternatively and of course, happens less. Funny, because I don’t know of any electricians who think about electricity and then stop doing their jobs. But I know plenty of writers who think themselves out of writing everyday, and often times it is the hardest thing that they actually do. It is hard, because it is rewarding. Remember digging ditches as a kid with your dad? Okay, maybe you don’t but I surely do. And I remember vividly that it was hard, because it was rewarding at the end. You got to look back and say to yourself “Wow, I just dug all that”, and in a lot of ways that is what knowledge work is like. By now you should realize by knowledge work I simply mean anything that isn’t a plumber or a carpenter. They of course have to do a lot of thinking on a day to day basis, but it is fundamentally different. Their thinking is an aptitude based on their physicality in their job, whereas a knowledge workers **thinking is the physicality of their job**. It is the reality of what we do, be it being a designer or developer, writer or freelancer - whatever it is. On some level, you are a knowledge worker and you have to choose what to be every morning.

How often do you wake up and check email, Facebook, or Twitter? Probably too often? I know you probably do, simply because I do that as well. It is something we all do. And yet it is the worst thing we can actually do. Every morning you make a critical claim with yourself that you are indeed going to get _work_ done today, and yet you spend the morning **when you are deciding** what to be that day subconsciously on checking email or Facebook? That is ludicrous. What is it that we don’t understand about ourselves that causes us to constantly check for that next new thing? Or is it that at all? It may not be, in fact it may simply be because we love new information. We are addicted to it. Here is where information diets are key, and you may not even like them. But enable yourself to get work done by taking one. Simply don’t check email or Facebook or Twitter in the morning when you wake up. They stop you from being a producer and get you to be a consumer. Do you want to be the 99% of the people you are producing for? Well, there is nothing wrong with that - but it is a seminal issue in your system. If you become that which you are producing for, then you stop being able to produce for them. It may only be for that day, or that hour - but it is important to stop it.

Stop pretending, and start deciding.