---
layout: post
title: "Blog to Think"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- growth
---

Blogging is probably one of the hardest things I have ever done. It is something that stops a lot of people in their tracks, and that is probably due to the fact that there are infinite things to talk about. It is sort of like having 20 books sitting in a ‘to read’ stack in front of you and how that would make it so cumbersome to choose one. It is quite limiting to be and have untold and infinite choices, and that is why I have tried all the things you could imagine under the sun to jumpstart my creativity/writing. And even though I have tried all these, I still struggle with writing every day. You know, there was once a man who said “Writers are people who have a harder time writing than anyone else” and I am starting to think that whoever said that is completely right. Don’t get me wrong, I love writing and talking and expressing myself, but I also - like many of you - have a huge problem with procrastination. For instance, right now as I type this I am thinking “Oh, what blog am I going to post this too?” or “What exactly am I writing this for”. As if I need some sort of blog to classify my thoughts right now. Why the hell does that have to matter? Why does any of that have to matter? Is it more important to classify and compartmentalize ourselves as we think it is? The answer is no.

A person, a book, and a lifestyle. These are the three things that have helped me with writing more so than anything I could have possibly imagined and I will share some of those insights with you all now. And believe me, I realize how ridiculous it is to get insights about writing from someone who doesn’t make a steady income (Although freelance one - yes) from writing. But bare with me, as these have helped me and I think they will you.

The person would be David Heinemeier Hansson, the creator of the web development framework “Ruby on Rails”. I would suggest watching one of his many talks online, or his discussion with @Jason on This Week in Startups, because he gives you that slap in the face that you need more than anyone I have ever met. Although he isn’t a writer, his techniques can be applied to anyone. His thoughts are those of extreme minimalism, asking WHY you are doing something, and WHAT are you doing it for. Those negative thoughts in your head? Yeah those. WHY are you having those, and what can you do about them. It isn’t just that asking those questions will heal you, but the philosophical rules for something and the execution SHOULD NOT BE SEPERATE. That being said, you won’t start writing unless you make your fingers move. Just making your fingers move can be one of the hardest thing for us writers. We just have to do these things, and as strange as it may sound - doing these things can be harder than it seems. Albeit, in other countries where kids walk around with AK’s and scavenge for food - this may sound absolutely ludicrous (hence why we call them first world problems - making fun of ourselves as we do). We realize why we have these problems, but regardless you need to do what you can to make to make a living. And if, for you, that is writing - YOU WILL have a hard time with it, similarly to someone who plays guitar for a living and has a hard time writing songs. The inspirational phase is difficult, the creation phase is difficult, the summary and editing phase is difficult - but in the end it’s all part of the process. To help me with getting down to the nitty gritty of these phases within the writing process I have implemented a lifestyle, which I will talk about next.

The lifestyle is something that Tim Ferriss describes in detail in a few of his books, and in a few of his talks/keynotes. This contains a few separate parts. The first would be the fact that we all have different hours of creation. Some of us are morning buds, we live and strive in the morning - while others are night owls that can’t do anything unless its after 9pm. Rather unfortunately, for my sleep schedule, I am the latter. I have found that embracing the time that I am able to CREATE and use that for creation rather than for idling has been incredibly beneficial. This means that I write at night, and can do my edits or anything else that is non-creative anytime of the day. Using these times to isolate patterns that I already know in my life has helped me more than any other singular task I know of. Now, some of you may have read books about writing and say “Well they sat down in the morning and cranked out 1000 words so I will too”… and that is a great motivation and inspiration you have, but in the long run it isn’t helpful. You need to define your OWN patterns and understand what they are best suited towards. Very much the same as when you come home for the day and put your keys and wallet in the same spot, you did this because you realized it compliments your workflow when leaving the house. The same attitude needs to be taken with writing. This leads into the second part, which is taking the pressure off. A lot of people are totally overwhelmed, as they were with that pile of 20 books to read, when they try to sit down and crank out 8000 words or more. This is the exact reason why so few finish NaNoWriMo (National Novel Writing Month). With that being said, it is a very simple thing to overcome. Just say to yourself, you will type 2 pages or 1 page EVERY DAY. Here’s the key: It doesn’t matter what you type. It doesn’t have to be the best words you ever have done, or even a blog post or article. It can be 2 pages of quotes, 2 pages of song lyrics, a poem you have in your head, complete and utter garbage - or anything in between. Just having those 2 pages, or whatever you chose, a day is absolutely critical for your need to be productive. It is a hard switch. It says “Oh did I do those pages today”, “YES” - boom switch flipped. Trust me it helps.

The last bit would be a book, and I am just going to keep this brief because if I tried to sum up the inspiration and understandings I have gotten from this book into a paragraph it would be 10 miles long. The book is called “Bird by Bird” by Anne Lamott. She is absolutely genius, and to cap this off well you need to go pick it up. You can order it off Amazon used for only 2 bucks. Do it. Read it. Write more.

In conclusion, I hope this advice helped you write your articles, your screenplay, your poetry, your advice column, your love letters, or whatever it is that you do or want to do. It has helped me a lot and I am so glad I could share it with you all. Just having a forum to share, not even the fact the readers may or may not be there, just the forum - is totally splendid. Love you all.