---
layout: post
title: "Find Balance in Context"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- reflections
---

We often take for granted things that we don’t exactly know fully. &nbsp;In some cases, that is our abilities. &nbsp;And in others, it’s our inabilities. &nbsp;To that point, I've found that the most compelling thing to do is to rest on your laurels, even though we don’t really like to do so **theoretically**. &nbsp;The fact is, we simply all love to be comfortable. &nbsp;We love to do things that make us happy and feel comforted, but ironically doing so keeps us locked within our shell and stops our ability to be comfortable. &nbsp;We can eat instead of work on a new idea, because that is comfortable and we feel like ourselves again. &nbsp; Because the fact is, we lose ourselves every time we start an idea, or jump into unknown waters, and one thing we all do to fix that is compensate. &nbsp;

For instance If you take just 2 risks today that make you feel very challenged, perhaps even slightly threatened (subconsciously even), then later in the evening you may have some ice cream instead of that challenging vegetable based meal you want to have to get healthy. &nbsp;Why? &nbsp;because Ice cream is familiar, pasta is familiar, these foods you love because you eat a lot of are familiar. &nbsp;All the things that you normally do are familiar to you. &nbsp;And you fall into that trap that our minds provide, and so do I. &nbsp;If I do x it is okay that I did y, because of x. &nbsp; But I am less concerned with the fact that we do this justification in our heads; I am more concerned with the actions and thoughts that lead up to the need for that justification. &nbsp;In my opinion justification after the fact is one thing, but the thought that happens to get you there is something entirely different. &nbsp;We can’t always challenge ourselves. &nbsp;We can’t always feel threatened, let our ego feel threatened, or simply be emerged in the unknown 24/7. &nbsp;Some people live that way, and that is great for them, but the large majority of us can’t do that. &nbsp;We need some sort of filtering mechanism and homely comforts to balance us out. &nbsp;We need that structure and understanding to be able to put everything else in focus, and that is perfectly reasonable and fine. &nbsp;And here's where the answer to the problem we didn't realize we had comes into play. &nbsp;We all need to make sure that our homely comforts and structure that we use to put everything else in focus/perspective/context is something we really enjoy and feel happy doing, even potentially so for the rest of our lives. &nbsp;No guilt allowed, no unhappiness or depression allowed. &nbsp;If you are doing things that are causing those states, they aren't truly homely comforts - they are lazy versions of self-pity. &nbsp;For instance, If that homely comfort is ice cream, then you may feel balanced eating chips later - because Ice cream is WAY worse than chips (you assume). &nbsp;But if your comfort is forcibly some nice delicious vegan meal, (which you can develop over time - not magically), then you may feel balanced having nothing but veggies or lean protein for a few days, and you wouldn't DARE contextualize chips as part of that decision process. &nbsp;**Your balance and perspective and context changes based upon your current situation**, and we all seem to forget that - or at least don’t see moment to moment enough to realize that there is a corollary effect to that and what we are doing. &nbsp;Don’t get caught in the trap of contextual mediocrity, and certainly don’t get caught in an unbalanced spiral causing you to be more unbalanced as you go, and it can be as easy as being mindful. &nbsp;Be mindful in the future. &nbsp;Be mindful now, and try to create that inner space in order to have a moment to breathe and consider your actions. &nbsp;It can even be as simple as changing one small comfort at a time. &nbsp;I think one of the big things we all underestimate is the power of small changes. &nbsp;So be there for yourself, and take your own future in your hands. &nbsp;Take responsibility, and anything’s possible. &nbsp;

Never stop, never give up, and never let yourself down. &nbsp;You made a promise to yourself the day you were born, ... do you really want to break that? &nbsp;