---
layout: post
title: "Experiential Waters"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- reflections
---

I've been having this thought: there is this side of life that happens at big events that you really don't see elsewhere. Partially because there's never that many people focused on a single thing anywhere else. But it also is sort of like peeling back the veil for a lot of different things: human emotion, acceptance, care, etc. There is this mask a lot of people wear and they take it off at places like that, or any place that they can have fun and feel like they can be themselves. But that emotion also happens around certain friends, where you feel accepted. There are these things we have to do all day - errands, deal with money, deal with work, etc. And then completely opposite of that there is this part of life where you dive deeply into the water. That water is usually conversation, experience, or connection, but it also happens at places like burning man. For most of my teenage years and early twenties when we were traveling around, now that i think back on it (but not aware of at the time) it seems like we were in search of that feeling. Wondering how deep we could dive into life, and see how soaked we would be when we got out. I'm not sure we ever figured it out consciously, but now that i think back i feel the answer is there was/is no limit. And I feel having friends that share in this search is possibly the most meaningful type of friendship. I love how more and more people these days are on this path. What's odd also is saying these things brings about images of people experiencing life in the way they always tell us is the most vivid. But it can happen in any format. The depth of the water is equally infinite, you just pick and choose which pools to jump into then plunge to the bottom. And it is amazing because near the bottom the emotions we feel are so much more powerful than anything else. It is even that way with, for example, playing music with friends. After minute 5 or 10 of playing a jam song with friends you will start to get this feeling in your stomach that wants you to stop, basically the same feeling that happens when you have to push through anything. And then if you do keep going you get this amazing emotion that is hard to describe. It's why Phish plays for as long as they do, it's the reason Trey gets on stage. Because he loves the connection and the feeling that he gets. It's almost like pure happiness, but it only happens on the other side of the wall. If you keep going, if you keep pushing through barriers and boundaries, and if you love the people around you and what you are experiencing with them.&nbsp;