---
layout: post
title: "Your Product's Longest Lever"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- product_dev
---

Branding is a tough job, but someone’s gotta’ do it. &nbsp;Should it be you? &nbsp;Why not, you know all you need to in order to execute on a great brand strategy. &nbsp;You thought you didn’t know? &nbsp;Well, you just aren’t thinking outside of the box. &nbsp;You are aware of the services, responses, businesses, and ideas that make you stop and go “Wow”, and when building a brand that is what you need to embrace. &nbsp;Now, we aren’t talking about the hypothetical vaporware-esque “Wow factor”, but more of the literal “Wow” that comes when something goes beyond your daily comprehension or expectations.&nbsp;

Let’s bust out an example here to hammer this home. Let’s say you hire a web design firm to redesign your website. &nbsp;You have more than likely vetted multiple firms in order to reach your decision, for why would anyone pay $20,000+ on a whim. &nbsp;They wouldn’t. &nbsp;So you can assume they have done their homework and are happy with your past client work and portfolio(s). &nbsp;That being said, is your brand strategy to give them ‘The best possible website’. &nbsp;If so, just stop and think for a moment - that is what you **do** for a living. &nbsp;It is not what you need to re-state. &nbsp;It is what you need to re-create, every time. &nbsp;No matter what. &nbsp;The ‘best possible web design and development’ needs to be your **default**, not your brand strategy or key pointer. &nbsp;Your key pointer needs to be more creative, more unique, more truthful to yourself and to your agency. &nbsp;It needs to be something that stops people on their phone in the street while talking to you and makes them say, “Wow. &nbsp;These people are ______”. &nbsp;You just have to fill in the gap. &nbsp;And no the gap can’t be “Good”, “Great”, “Excellent”, or any other *defaults* that you live in on a day to day basis. &nbsp;The gap there has to be something like &nbsp;“Hilarious”, “Powerful”, etc. &nbsp;Get rid of all the normal adjectives that you want a customer to feel when creating a brand strategy and just focus on who you all truly are. &nbsp;Are you into music, knitting, or the arts? &nbsp;Are you entrenched entirely in the tech scene or the responsive web design world specifically? &nbsp;Embrace that. &nbsp;Embrace it all. &nbsp;

The hard part of all this is when someone comes up and says, “How do we figure out if an employee is good for our brand?” &nbsp;Well, that is a tough question, if you aren’t thinking outside the box. &nbsp;Remember, always think creatively. &nbsp;Don’t think in the typical habitual patterns we are forced to on a day to day basis. &nbsp;Think new, think bright, think color, think fresh, think power, think whatever it is you need to do to become more insightful on your brand. &nbsp;Let’s say your brand is a goofy one, and you even let people know it with small things like your iOS updates where you have goofy language that makes people assume your brand is very humanized. &nbsp;This is a great start for a goofy brand, and a very human one as well. &nbsp;Sidebar: don’t ever think there is *anything wrong* with being goofy, silly, weird, strange, or anything else. &nbsp;Being that way has made certain people billionaires, and even more people simply wealthy every day. &nbsp;Back on topic: “How do I evaluate if a new hire is silly/goofy enough as a person (read: open minded enough, and an attitude fit) for our brand?” Simply ask yourself if you would hang out with him after work. &nbsp;That is one of the most powerful questions that we often forget when doing hires. &nbsp;Would we hang out with these people after the job was completed, and not just to celebrate a job well done, but when the shit get’s rough would you go out for a beer with this person? &nbsp;When there’s nothing to talk about, would you talk about it with this person? &nbsp;If not, then get rid of them. &nbsp;Your brand should be an extension of you and everyone that is already there and who they are. &nbsp;If you can’t fold someone into that with love then get rid of them. &nbsp;

In fact, the word branding shouldn't even be used, because it keeps people thinking inside the box. &nbsp;We need you to break out of that habitual cyclic thinking, and get some bottom-up awareness. &nbsp;What I mean by that is you shouldn’t view from the top down. &nbsp; Top down: Me -above-&gt; Him -whose above--&gt; His Team -whose above--&gt; Their members -whose above--&gt; the customers, No. &nbsp;That isn't reality. &nbsp;The reality of it, no matter how hard it may be to admit, is you empower your team -&gt; whose empowering their members -&gt; whose empowering another team and their members -&gt; who all empower the customers (aka, you holding up your team -&gt; who holds up their members -&gt; **who holds up the customers** so on so forth). &nbsp; How many businesses have you seen lose a large customer base? &nbsp;Probably quite a few, and in almost all cases the reason was because they stopped holding up and empowering the customers. &nbsp; Simply put, **we are holding these businesses up from the bottom, never forget that, because the mistakes come when we do.**