---
layout: post
title: "Find Your Serenity"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- reflections
---

One thing that has really been hanging me up lately is how much emphasis people put on the power of affirmations, without regard for physiological effects.  In my opinion it’s all about the physiology behind your passions and feelings.  You can stand and say “I’m happy I’m happy” all day long, but until you truly feel happiness you won’t be happy.  You can’t trick your heart.  You can trick your mind, but don’t be fooled as it plays the trick right back making you think that is the depth of its care.  To really feel things and experience changes you have to **believe** in what you’re saying, you have to feel it, you have to yell it and sing it (or at least be ready to).  

Many years ago there was a great MIT study where they found people’s emotions were easily changed.  But not how you’d expect.  Not with a thought, but instead with breath.  They found the quickest way to reset your emotional state was to breathe out all the air you have and let that sit for a moment. Then take in another breath.  It’s funny because we take it for granted (or rather our ego does) but they found that every individual emotion produces an almost imperceptible change in breathing patterns.  And to break that flow is the easiest way to get back to baseline.  And the whole point of knowing that isn’t so much to negate negative feelings (although that is one), its really to see how you feel at that baseline state.  You will only experience it for a fraction of a second each time you do it, but that is truly your benchmark for personal happiness.  Depending on how hard it is to tell how you feel there you may be able to figure out how much work you have to do as an individual.  But at least now we can see serenity - it only lies on the other side of our breath.