---
layout: post
title: "Utopia is Within Reach"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- fiction
favorite: true
---

Utopia can be found in the stillness of the white wash smashing against a stone. The waves caressing a rock. Be it a small pebble, or a rock as huge as this.

Stillness permeates our being, yet we feel so scared of it. We feel so threatened by the nothingness, by the equal lifelessness and liveliness of nature. The essential paradox.

Throughout your life you’ll be greeted by many choices, some important, and some not so much. And the type of person you become is purely a result of the essentialism you exhibit in your decision making process – for the hardest decisions are always paradoxical in nature. Do you have the ability to live in a paradoxical state? Are you calm in spirit, but act with urgency towards your goals? Do you have passion for your works yet ambivalence for them not being accepted? Do you have a pure fire of love in the pit of your stomach, and along with it anxiety anytime you feel you aren’t moving or changing fast enough? Can you accept your negative emotions, understanding your only human but that *only* is the most beautiful thing that you can possibly imagine?

It’s one of the hardest parts of life – paradoxical acceptance. Being able to fruitfully exist in a world of dualities. Being able to love and hate, to feel anxious and calm, to move with smooth rigidness like a boat traveling across the ocean.

We can learn a lot from things that aren’t organic – although it will always feel ridiculous to do so. Are you okay with that? Can you be? Can you be okay studying a ship, or a rock sitting on the ocean for lessons? The extent to which you can is probably the extent to which your able to succeed. Regardless of how absurd it may be. The ability to draw lessons from things which most consider unable to teach is a gift only beset upon the most wise in our culture. You’d do well to cultivate it within yourself.

Today, be like this rock on the ocean: still, calm, and steady yet ready for the most tremendous of storms and the most powerful of foes – knowing you’ll never falter or sink. Your power is eternal, you’ve been around longer than you imagine.